Announcements.md, before:

[Link to CMSE401 website](http://cmse.msu.edu/cmse401/)

[--> January Announcements](Announcements-January)

----

# February 17, 2021 - OMP loop 

Hello CMSE401 students,

Here are the videos from today's Class:

### [Loops Pre-class Questions](https://youtu.be/YYhpJY7JuRU)





<iframe
    width="100%"
    height="300"
    src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/YYhpJY7JuRU?cc_load_policy=True"
    frameborder="0"
    allowfullscreen
></iframe>




## [OMP Pi Example](https://youtu.be/N8Ov9287WGE)





<iframe
    width="100%"
    height="300"
    src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/N8Ov9287WGE?cc_load_policy=True"
    frameborder="0"
    allowfullscreen
></iframe>




## [Matrix Multiply OMP](https://youtu.be/Sp29vxqyh2k)





<iframe
    width="100%"
    height="300"
    src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/Sp29vxqyh2k?cc_load_policy=True"
    frameborder="0"
    allowfullscreen
></iframe>




Let me know if you have any questions,

- Dirk

-----

# February 15, 2021 - Syncing Threads and scheduling OMP jobs

Hello CMSE401 students,

Here are the videos from today's class.  


### [Pre-class questions](https://youtu.be/vI_iSHi6uRc)







<iframe
    width="100%"
    height="300"
    src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/vI_iSHi6uRc?cc_load_policy=True"
    frameborder="0"
    allowfullscreen
></iframe>




### [OnDemand Troubleshooting](https://youtu.be/s_MKsCMQ_50)





<iframe
    width="100%"
    height="300"
    src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/s_MKsCMQ_50?cc_load_policy=True"
    frameborder="0"
    allowfullscreen
></iframe>




### [Class Rescheduling](https://youtu.be/XEF4M_7QuDE)





<iframe
    width="100%"
    height="300"
    src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/XEF4M_7QuDE?cc_load_policy=True"
    frameborder="0"
    allowfullscreen
></iframe>




### [Scheduling Shared Memory jobs in SLURM](https://youtu.be/7XkRnQOBayk)





<iframe
    width="100%"
    height="300"
    src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/7XkRnQOBayk?cc_load_policy=True"
    frameborder="0"
    allowfullscreen
></iframe>




Let me know if you have any questions,

- Dirk

----

# February 13, 2021 - Next week's assignments are posted.

Hello Again CMSE401 Students,

I just finished updating the course website and the student git repository with new assignments for next week.  These changes include the new quiz and homework schedule (basically I swapped them out.  Please have a look and make sure I didn't miss anything.

Take care and see you on Monday,

- Dirk

----


# February 12th, 2021 - Assignment Schedule Changes are coming

Hello CMSE401 Students,

As I am preparing to post next weeks assignments, I realized that we are not far enough along for you to finish the OpenMP homework (HW2) which I had scheduled to be due next Thursday (February 18).  Although all of you should have no problem doing the serial benchmarking,  I don't feel we have had enough practice with OMP for loops and SLURM scheduling.   

Unfortunately, I don't feel like we can easily skip a week which will throw off my schedule completely.  Therefore, I am going to rearrange the schedule a bit as follows:

* First, Nothing will be due next Thursday February 18th.  The Homework will now be due February 25th instead.

* Second, I plan on moving Quiz2 from February 26 to next Friday February 19.  Quizzes are worth much less of your final grade and I can target the quiz on what we have covered.  

* Finally, I will then probably just swap the quiz due dates with the homeworks for the rest of the semester (assuming the topics line up okay). 

These changes will actually take quite a bit of schedule fiddling on my end.  I will not be able to get them done tonight and it may take me much of the weekend (I also need to grade your project proposals).  I will let everyone know when I am finished.  Please be patient and let me know as soon as possible if you have an concerns regarding this plan.

One final note, I don't plan to change the pre-class assignments for next week. Therefore I will get them posted tonight so you can work on them as well. 

Take care,

- Dirk

----

# February 10th, 2021 - OpenMP Threads

Hello CMSE401 Students,

Todays videos are uploaded and available. 

- [Pre-Class Questions](https://youtu.be/590pwuiaDCs)





<iframe
    width="100%"
    height="300"
    src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/590pwuiaDCs?cc_load_policy=True"
    frameborder="0"
    allowfullscreen
></iframe>




- [Project Cross-Cutting Themes](https://youtu.be/RSGfSn89QC4)





<iframe
    width="100%"
    height="300"
    src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/RSGfSn89QC4?cc_load_policy=True"
    frameborder="0"
    allowfullscreen
></iframe>




- [OMP Pi Example](https://youtu.be/2bPJMlSYRfM)





<iframe
    width="100%"
    height="300"
    src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/2bPJMlSYRfM?cc_load_policy=True"
    frameborder="0"
    allowfullscreen
></iframe>




Let me know if you have any questions,

- Dirk

----

# February 9th, 2021 - Introduction to OpenMP Videos Posted

Hello CMSE401 students,

I just finished posting the videos from Monday's Class.  You can find them on the course website or you can link to them here:

## [Pre-class question review](https://youtu.be/l0QuP4mz4Zw)





<iframe
    width="100%"
    height="300"
    src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/l0QuP4mz4Zw?cc_load_policy=True"
    frameborder="0"
    allowfullscreen
></iframe>




## [Quiz1 Review](https://youtu.be/d9w7n3V9DpQ)





<iframe
    width="100%"
    height="300"
    src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/?cc_load_policy=True"
    frameborder="0"
    allowfullscreen
></iframe>




## [Basic OpenMP Example](https://youtu.be/cMs37Fyt0YU)





<iframe
    width="100%"
    height="300"
    src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/cMs37Fyt0YU?cc_load_policy=True"
    frameborder="0"
    allowfullscreen
></iframe>




## [BASH Tricks](https://youtu.be/BHa2O_kFnfQ)





<iframe
    width="100%"
    height="300"
    src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/BHa2O_kFnfQ?cc_load_policy=True"
    frameborder="0"
    allowfullscreen
></iframe>




## [Caching Discussion](https://youtu.be/SPL7n_hlZns)





<iframe
    width="100%"
    height="300"
    src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/SPL7n_hlZns?cc_load_policy=True"
    frameborder="0"
    allowfullscreen
></iframe>




## [OpenMP Code Inspection](https://youtu.be/p1LBHDyJgiA)





<iframe
    width="100%"
    height="300"
    src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/p1LBHDyJgiA?cc_load_policy=True"
    frameborder="0"
    allowfullscreen
></iframe>




Please let me know if you have any questions,

Take care,

- Dirk

---

# February 5th, 2021 - OMP Week 1 Pre-class assignments posted

Hello Everyone,

I hope the quiz today was reasonable and you learned something.  I will grade it this weekend and we have time set aside to answer questions.  I just finished posting the notebooks for next week. Let me know if you have any questions.

- Dirk

----

# February 3rd, 2021 - Last Bash

Hello CMSE401 Students,

Please remember to set up your git repositories for HW2 by tomorrow so I can test your accounts.  Below are links to todays in-class videos.

## [Last Bash Questions](https://youtu.be/5PMZU0a2nXA)





<iframe
    width="100%"
    height="300"
    src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/5PMZU0a2nXA?cc_load_policy=True"
    frameborder="0"
    allowfullscreen
></iframe>




## [Summer Research Opportunities](https://youtu.be/jZaMn5HamfA)





<iframe
    width="100%"
    height="300"
    src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/jZaMn5HamfA?cc_load_policy=True"
    frameborder="0"
    allowfullscreen
></iframe>




## [HWLOC](https://youtu.be/v8KOWvRyrK8)





<iframe
    width="100%"
    height="300"
    src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/v8KOWvRyrK8?cc_load_policy=True"
    frameborder="0"
    allowfullscreen
></iframe>




## [Stream Benchmark](https://youtu.be/J39QZ-zuDZk)





<iframe
    width="100%"
    height="300"
    src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/J39QZ-zuDZk?cc_load_policy=True"
    frameborder="0"
    allowfullscreen
></iframe>




Let me know if you have any questions,

- Dirk

----

# February 1st, 2021 - SLURM

Hello CMSE401 Students,

Just finished posting the videos for today's assignment.  You can find them here:

## [SLURM Questions](https://youtu.be/By71DaPFTNw)





<iframe
    width="100%"
    height="300"
    src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/By71DaPFTNw?cc_load_policy=True"
    frameborder="0"
    allowfullscreen
></iframe>




## [HW2 Question](https://youtu.be/MScCVr33zj8)





<iframe
    width="100%"
    height="300"
    src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/MScCVr33zj8?cc_load_policy=True"
    frameborder="0"
    allowfullscreen
></iframe>




## [Mean Time To Science](https://youtu.be/ZAHKSEhPuac)





<iframe
    width="100%"
    height="300"
    src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/ZAHKSEhPuac?cc_load_policy=True"
    frameborder="0"
    allowfullscreen
></iframe>




## [Pandemic Serial SLURM Example](https://youtu.be/4iBG09myURk)





<iframe
    width="100%"
    height="300"
    src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/4iBG09myURk?cc_load_policy=True"
    frameborder="0"
    allowfullscreen
></iframe>




Let me know if you have any questions,

- Dirk

[--> January Announcements](Announcements-January)

-----

Commit message:

Adding in virtual tour of oak ridge

Announcements.md, after:

[Link to CMSE401 website](http://cmse.msu.edu/cmse401/)

[--> January Announcements](Announcements-January)

# February 19, 2021 - Supercomputer virtual tour

Hello CMSE401 students,

Last time I taught this course I managed to arrange a tour of the MSU HPCC facility.  Unfortunately an in-person tour is not possible.  However, on Monday I heard a great talk by [Dr. Bronson Messer](http://astro.phys.utk.edu/bronson/) (Computational Astrophysicist) Director of Science at Oak Ridge National Laboratory (one of the nations biggest HPC facilities).  If you are interested, I encourage all of you to watch his talk and check out the on-line [virtual tour of Oak Ridge](https://bit.ly/37bIL8v).  

    https://mediaspace.msu.edu/media/Createing_SSH_keypairs_on_Jupyterhub+-+Quiz/1_8y3jhesd






<iframe
    width="100%"
    height=""
    src="https://cdnapisec.kaltura.com/p/811482/sp/81148200/embedIframeJs/uiconf_id/34286751/partner_id/811482?iframeembed=true&playerId=kaltura_player&entry_id=1_8y3jhesd&flashvars[streamerType]=auto&amp;flashvars[localizationCode]=en&amp;flashvars[expandToggleBtn.plugin]=false&amp;flashvars[leadWithHTML5]=true&amp;flashvars[sideBarContainer.plugin]=true&amp;flashvars[sideBarContainer.position]=left&amp;flashvars[sideBarContainer.clickToClose]=true&amp;flashvars[chapters.plugin]=true&amp;flashvars[chapters.layout]=vertical&amp;flashvars[chapters.thumbnailRotator]=false&amp;flashvars[streamSelector.plugin]=true&amp;flashvars[EmbedPlayer.SpinnerTarget]=videoHolder&amp;flashvars[dualScreen.plugin]=true&amp;&wid=1_hmb43e7e"
    frameborder="0"
    allowfullscreen
></iframe>




[![Oak Ridge Virtual tour](https://lh3.googleusercontent.com/2KH_HW4ZhiV4o2SCkTWW1comOjrxEL3QP_YAP4nZpI6hMnxqPIXW55GK_2Rvo2GN_v2Pa7mJjLdXF55yPZqll3DsOAlQg07psB2qRFi6L-Fq6SDR3a3JzTyoObD81Q=w740)](https://bit.ly/37bIL8v)

Take care,

- Dirk

----

# February 17, 2021 - OMP loop 

Hello CMSE401 students,

Here are the videos from today's Class:

### [Loops Pre-class Questions](https://youtu.be/YYhpJY7JuRU)





<iframe
    width="100%"
    height="300"
    src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/YYhpJY7JuRU?cc_load_policy=True"
    frameborder="0"
    allowfullscreen
></iframe>




## [OMP Pi Example](https://youtu.be/N8Ov9287WGE)





<iframe
    width="100%"
    height="300"
    src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/N8Ov9287WGE?cc_load_policy=True"
    frameborder="0"
    allowfullscreen
></iframe>




## [Matrix Multiply OMP](https://youtu.be/Sp29vxqyh2k)





<iframe
    width="100%"
    height="300"
    src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/Sp29vxqyh2k?cc_load_policy=True"
    frameborder="0"
    allowfullscreen
></iframe>




Let me know if you have any questions,

- Dirk

-----

# February 15, 2021 - Syncing Threads and scheduling OMP jobs

Hello CMSE401 students,

Here are the videos from today's class.  


### [Pre-class questions](https://youtu.be/vI_iSHi6uRc)







<iframe
    width="100%"
    height="300"
    src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/vI_iSHi6uRc?cc_load_policy=True"
    frameborder="0"
    allowfullscreen
></iframe>




### [OnDemand Troubleshooting](https://youtu.be/s_MKsCMQ_50)





<iframe
    width="100%"
    height="300"
    src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/s_MKsCMQ_50?cc_load_policy=True"
    frameborder="0"
    allowfullscreen
></iframe>




### [Class Rescheduling](https://youtu.be/XEF4M_7QuDE)





<iframe
    width="100%"
    height="300"
    src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/XEF4M_7QuDE?cc_load_policy=True"
    frameborder="0"
    allowfullscreen
></iframe>




### [Scheduling Shared Memory jobs in SLURM](https://youtu.be/7XkRnQOBayk)





<iframe
    width="100%"
    height="300"
    src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/7XkRnQOBayk?cc_load_policy=True"
    frameborder="0"
    allowfullscreen
></iframe>




Let me know if you have any questions,

- Dirk

----

# February 13, 2021 - Next week's assignments are posted.

Hello Again CMSE401 Students,

I just finished updating the course website and the student git repository with new assignments for next week.  These changes include the new quiz and homework schedule (basically I swapped them out.  Please have a look and make sure I didn't miss anything.

Take care and see you on Monday,

- Dirk

----


# February 12th, 2021 - Assignment Schedule Changes are coming

Hello CMSE401 Students,

As I am preparing to post next weeks assignments, I realized that we are not far enough along for you to finish the OpenMP homework (HW2) which I had scheduled to be due next Thursday (February 18).  Although all of you should have no problem doing the serial benchmarking,  I don't feel we have had enough practice with OMP for loops and SLURM scheduling.   

Unfortunately, I don't feel like we can easily skip a week which will throw off my schedule completely.  Therefore, I am going to rearrange the schedule a bit as follows:

* First, Nothing will be due next Thursday February 18th.  The Homework will now be due February 25th instead.

* Second, I plan on moving Quiz2 from February 26 to next Friday February 19.  Quizzes are worth much less of your final grade and I can target the quiz on what we have covered.  

* Finally, I will then probably just swap the quiz due dates with the homeworks for the rest of the semester (assuming the topics line up okay). 

These changes will actually take quite a bit of schedule fiddling on my end.  I will not be able to get them done tonight and it may take me much of the weekend (I also need to grade your project proposals).  I will let everyone know when I am finished.  Please be patient and let me know as soon as possible if you have an concerns regarding this plan.

One final note, I don't plan to change the pre-class assignments for next week. Therefore I will get them posted tonight so you can work on them as well. 

Take care,

- Dirk

----

# February 10th, 2021 - OpenMP Threads

Hello CMSE401 Students,

Todays videos are uploaded and available. 

- [Pre-Class Questions](https://youtu.be/590pwuiaDCs)





<iframe
    width="100%"
    height="300"
    src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/590pwuiaDCs?cc_load_policy=True"
    frameborder="0"
    allowfullscreen
></iframe>




- [Project Cross-Cutting Themes](https://youtu.be/RSGfSn89QC4)





<iframe
    width="100%"
    height="300"
    src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/RSGfSn89QC4?cc_load_policy=True"
    frameborder="0"
    allowfullscreen
></iframe>




- [OMP Pi Example](https://youtu.be/2bPJMlSYRfM)





<iframe
    width="100%"
    height="300"
    src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/2bPJMlSYRfM?cc_load_policy=True"
    frameborder="0"
    allowfullscreen
></iframe>




Let me know if you have any questions,

- Dirk

----

# February 9th, 2021 - Introduction to OpenMP Videos Posted

Hello CMSE401 students,

I just finished posting the videos from Monday's Class.  You can find them on the course website or you can link to them here:

## [Pre-class question review](https://youtu.be/l0QuP4mz4Zw)





<iframe
    width="100%"
    height="300"
    src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/l0QuP4mz4Zw?cc_load_policy=True"
    frameborder="0"
    allowfullscreen
></iframe>




## [Quiz1 Review](https://youtu.be/d9w7n3V9DpQ)





<iframe
    width="100%"
    height="300"
    src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/?cc_load_policy=True"
    frameborder="0"
    allowfullscreen
></iframe>




## [Basic OpenMP Example](https://youtu.be/cMs37Fyt0YU)





<iframe
    width="100%"
    height="300"
    src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/cMs37Fyt0YU?cc_load_policy=True"
    frameborder="0"
    allowfullscreen
></iframe>




## [BASH Tricks](https://youtu.be/BHa2O_kFnfQ)





<iframe
    width="100%"
    height="300"
    src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/BHa2O_kFnfQ?cc_load_policy=True"
    frameborder="0"
    allowfullscreen
></iframe>




## [Caching Discussion](https://youtu.be/SPL7n_hlZns)





<iframe
    width="100%"
    height="300"
    src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/SPL7n_hlZns?cc_load_policy=True"
    frameborder="0"
    allowfullscreen
></iframe>




## [OpenMP Code Inspection](https://youtu.be/p1LBHDyJgiA)





<iframe
    width="100%"
    height="300"
    src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/p1LBHDyJgiA?cc_load_policy=True"
    frameborder="0"
    allowfullscreen
></iframe>




Please let me know if you have any questions,

Take care,

- Dirk

---

# February 5th, 2021 - OMP Week 1 Pre-class assignments posted

Hello Everyone,

I hope the quiz today was reasonable and you learned something.  I will grade it this weekend and we have time set aside to answer questions.  I just finished posting the notebooks for next week. Let me know if you have any questions.

- Dirk

----

# February 3rd, 2021 - Last Bash

Hello CMSE401 Students,

Please remember to set up your git repositories for HW2 by tomorrow so I can test your accounts.  Below are links to todays in-class videos.

## [Last Bash Questions](https://youtu.be/5PMZU0a2nXA)





<iframe
    width="100%"
    height="300"
    src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/5PMZU0a2nXA?cc_load_policy=True"
    frameborder="0"
    allowfullscreen
></iframe>




## [Summer Research Opportunities](https://youtu.be/jZaMn5HamfA)





<iframe
    width="100%"
    height="300"
    src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/jZaMn5HamfA?cc_load_policy=True"
    frameborder="0"
    allowfullscreen
></iframe>




## [HWLOC](https://youtu.be/v8KOWvRyrK8)





<iframe
    width="100%"
    height="300"
    src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/v8KOWvRyrK8?cc_load_policy=True"
    frameborder="0"
    allowfullscreen
></iframe>




## [Stream Benchmark](https://youtu.be/J39QZ-zuDZk)





<iframe
    width="100%"
    height="300"
    src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/J39QZ-zuDZk?cc_load_policy=True"
    frameborder="0"
    allowfullscreen
></iframe>




Let me know if you have any questions,

- Dirk

----

# February 1st, 2021 - SLURM

Hello CMSE401 Students,

Just finished posting the videos for today's assignment.  You can find them here:

## [SLURM Questions](https://youtu.be/By71DaPFTNw)





<iframe
    width="100%"
    height="300"
    src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/By71DaPFTNw?cc_load_policy=True"
    frameborder="0"
    allowfullscreen
></iframe>




## [HW2 Question](https://youtu.be/MScCVr33zj8)





<iframe
    width="100%"
    height="300"
    src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/MScCVr33zj8?cc_load_policy=True"
    frameborder="0"
    allowfullscreen
></iframe>




## [Mean Time To Science](https://youtu.be/ZAHKSEhPuac)





<iframe
    width="100%"
    height="300"
    src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/ZAHKSEhPuac?cc_load_policy=True"
    frameborder="0"
    allowfullscreen
></iframe>




## [Pandemic Serial SLURM Example](https://youtu.be/4iBG09myURk)





<iframe
    width="100%"
    height="300"
    src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/4iBG09myURk?cc_load_policy=True"
    frameborder="0"
    allowfullscreen
></iframe>




Let me know if you have any questions,

- Dirk

[--> January Announcements](Announcements-January)

-----
